DevOps Interview Questions and Answers for Freshers and Experienced in 2023-----https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GX6fOvaS0Xs


INSTANCE PROFILE IS a container for an IAM role and you can use role information to an ec2 instance when instance starts.

Instance profile in IAM is a container and you can userole info to an ec2 instance when instanc3 starts----------- 
difference between TCP and UDP-------
TCP is used for transferring the data like emails,files transfer and web browsing securely without of loosing of pockets of data.
UDP is used for realtime video streaming i.e data is transferred even though it is complete or not.

IN LINUX---alias command is used for shortening the longer commands(alias ls ='ls -ltr'   alias kgp(kubernetes get pods))
seven layers of OSI(open system interconnection))---
physical
datalink
network 
transport
session
presentation
application

RESERVED INSTANCES---are long term reservations of compute capacity,offering a significant discount.
SPOT INSTANCES-------are spare capacity instances available at a lower price but terminated with short notice.
ON-DEMAND INSTANCES--pay for compute capacity   by the hour with no longterm commitments.

ANSIBLE IS  configuration management and automationvtool ,Terraform is used for infrastructure provisionin and management.
ANSIBLE defines how to configure servers,Terraform focuses on describing the desired state of infrastructure. 

ansible playbooks is a yaml file .defines  a set of tasks and configurations to be executed on remote serrvers.it is used for automation and configuration mgmt.

Statefile is used to keep track of the resources.it stores the current state of the infrastructure and helps Terraform plan and apply changes accurately.

VIRTUALIZATION---Running multiple VM's in a physical server with its own Operating system.Its like having seperate houses for different families in a single building.
CONTAINERIZATION---Running isolated applications on a shared operating system.its like having apartments in a single building,where each apartment is self contained.but
shares common infrastructure.

development environment-------testing ----build and test the code
stage environment------------pre pod before deploy into production 

blue green deployment-------------is a deployment strategy where u have two identical environments [blue and green],and switching the traffic between them  when 
deployig new versions.this minimizes the downtime and allows quick rollbacks	 if issues arise.

CANARY DEPLOYMENT------DEPLOYment is  a strategy where a new version of application is deployed to  a small subset of users or servers allowing for testing and validation
if it performs well its gradually rolled out   the entire user base.ex--10% of traffic to initially  and gradually deployed at the end to tje newer version
first 10% to new version ,second 20% and like that after every thing ok then users are connected with newer version.

ISSUE U FACED---the most significant challenge i faced is ,managing a sudden influx or traffic during a product launch.we had quickly scale the application to handle 
the load w hich involved in ptimizzing the databsase querries and adding more servers..

I automate the deployment using jenkins,gitlab and gitlab CICD.Building and testing the code automatically  on every commit and also continuous monitoring to make 
sure systems are up and running.

